How People
with Disabilities use Digital Technology.
Cognitive and Learning Disabilities.
Cognitive and learning disabilities
affect how people process, understand
and remember information.
They cover a wide range
of cognitive differences and disabilities,
and many of them do not affect
overall intelligence.
For example, many people have varying
degrees of dyslexia.
Dyslexia affects the ability to recognise
and sound out written words
which impact
spelling and reading comprehension.
Websites and apps with sufficient white
space and headings to separate the content
make it easier for people to read.
Clear navigation with distinct section headers
also make it easier for people to navigate
through the content.
Websites and apps
also need to work with reading tools,
including tools
that adjust how the text is presented,
read the text aloud,
and help with spelling and grammar.
Similarly, some people have varying degrees
of dyscalculia.
Dyscalculia affects the ability to process
and work with numbers
in mathematical concepts.
Websites and apps
that provide alternatives to
mathematical abstractions, are easier to use
for people with dyscalculia.
This could include showing a progress bar
instead of or
in addition to showing a percentage.
Websites
and apps can also provide visual aids
and text descriptions for things
like schedules and temperatures.
People have varying degrees of memory
abilities,
including short-term and working memory.
Reduced short-term memory effects,
the ability to remember new things
such as passwords or where in a process
someone might be,
especially in stressful situations.
Websites and apps with clear navigation
and layout, prominent
and unique page titles
and distinct instructions and cues
can make it easier for people
to remember where they are in the content.
Websites and apps can also help people
remember information
they have previously added,
such as addresses and telephone numbers.
People might have different
levels of attention and focus.
This includes people with attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, ADHD,
brain trauma, age
related forgetfulness and dementia.
These cognitive differences affect
the ability to focus and to resume a task
after the user is distracted.
In addition to
breaking up longer passages of text
and using headings, websites and apps
without pop up windows and automatically
playing videos, sounds or animations
make it easier for people to focus
and follow the content.
Some people experience difficulty
orienting themselves
in layouts and visual designs
that are new to them.
It may also be difficult for them
to learn new keystrokes or gestures
needed for interaction.
Websites and apps with consistent
and predictable designs
and with clear and distinct instructions
make it easier
for people to know where they are
and complete tasks.
You can help make technology accessible.
To me.
Accessibility.
It's about people.
For more information
from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on How People with Disabilities
Use Digital Technology, visit
w3.org/WAI/people